feat: add test-slack-app skill (#122)
slackapi/slack-mcp-plugin: skills/test-slack-app/SKILL.md

---
name: test-slack-app

> description: Use when someone wants to test, try out, smoke-test, verify, or confirm that an existing Slack app actually works the way they expect, especially a non-technical developer who built it with a coding agent. This is guided manual checking that runs the app in a developer sandbox, never a workspace with real users. To scaffold a new app instead, use create-slack-app; to only run it or tail logs, use slack-cli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use when a developer wants to test, smoke-test, verify, or confirm that a Slack app built with the Slack CLI (or a plain Bolt app) actually works — running it in a developer sandbox with `slack run` and walking through its slash commands, shortcuts, events, actions, modals, App Home, and assistant surfaces. Also covers `slack doctor` and `slack manifest validate` health checks before hands-on testing.
```

suggestion: The following attempts to match the 7-point convention we standardized in #124 (see `.github/maintainers_guide.md` "Authoring Skills"):

- **Matches the "Use when a developer …" opening** used by all six other rewritten skills (block-kit, create-slack-app, slack-api, slack-cli, slack-messaging, slack-search). Drops the "someone / especially a non-technical developer who built it with a coding agent" persona clause, which reads more like pitch than trigger.
- **Packs in concrete keywords** an agent would match on: `slack run`, `slack doctor`, `slack manifest validate`. The skill body leans on these commands but none surfaced in the old description.
- **Names the Slack surfaces** the skill actually produces per-surface steps for — slash commands, shortcuts, events, actions, modals, App Home, assistant — instead of the generic "Slack app".
- **Drops the sibling-skill pointers** ("To scaffold a new app instead, use create-slack-app; to only run it or tail logs, use slack-cli."). No other rewritten description does this; per `AGENTS.md`'s "Cross-Skill References" section, delegation to sibling skills belongs in the `SKILL.md` body, not the description.
- **Still under the 500-character aim** (~460 chars) and passes the frontmatter unit checks (`test_description_leads_with_trigger_cue`, `test_description_is_impersonal`, `test_description_length`).

- **Find the current target.** Run `SLACK_CMD auth list` for the authenticated workspaces and their team IDs, and, from the project directory, `SLACK_CMD app list` for the apps already installed and their IDs.
- **Confirm it is a sandbox.** The CLI cannot tell a sandbox apart from a workspace with real users, so ask the developer to confirm the target is a developer sandbox. If there is no sandbox yet, set one up with the `slack:create-slack-app` skill (**Step 3: Set Up a Developer Sandbox**), which owns the `sandbox list` / `sandbox create` flow and the Developer Program links. Creating a sandbox happens in the browser, so have the developer come back here once the sandbox exists and they have logged into it.

### 1c. Quick health check

Catch obvious setup problems with the CLI's own validation before the slower hands-on checks:

- `SLACK_CMD doctor`: checks the CLI, language runtime, and authentication.
- `SLACK_CMD manifest validate`: run from the project directory if the app has a manifest, to confirm the app configuration is well-formed.

Surface anything these flag before moving on.

---

## Step 2: Run the App

> Whichever path you use below, first turn the app's log level up to debug so you have the most context while testing. Read the app's source to find where the log level is set, and switch it to debug for this work before starting the app.

Reviewer: note(non-blocking): The log-level guidance jumps straight to editing source. Most Bolt starters honour `SLACK_LOG_LEVEL` / `LOG_LEVEL` env vars, and `SLACK_CMD env set` persists them per-app, which keeps the developers code untouched during a test pass. 

A follow-up task can try the env-var path first and only recommending a source edit when the templates logger is not wired to read one. However, I would keep this PR as-is.

### CLI-managed apps (recommended)

Follow **Step 6: Running an App Locally (`slack run`)** in the `slack:slack-cli` skill to start the local dev server in the background. This also installs the app into the target workspace, which matters for a fresh sandbox where nothing is installed yet. Once it is running, file changes auto-reload.

### Plain Bolt apps without the CLI (best-effort)

If the app is a plain Bolt app started with `node` or `python` rather than the Slack CLI, this skill can still help, but the run path is best-effort and not the primary flow:

- Point the app at the sandbox: set its bot and app-level tokens (from the sandbox app's settings) in the environment or the `.env` file the app reads.

> - Prefer socket mode so the app needs no public URL.

Reviewer: suggestion: Socket mode is more than a token swap. The app itself has to be built for it: Bolts `App({ socketMode: true, appToken })` (or the Python equivalent) plus `connections:write` on the app-level token (CLI manages it). Worth adding one line in the best-effort path so a developer whose app was scaffolded for HTTP does not chase tokens and wonder why nothing arrives.

```suggestion
- Prefer socket mode so the app needs no public URL. This works only if the app is coded for socket mode (Bolt `App({ socketMode: true, appToken })` or the Python equivalent) and the app-level token has `connections:write`; adding tokens to an app scaffolded for HTTP will not deliver events.
```

Author: Yess that makes sense, I just want to reword that so that its not Bolt or Language specific

- **[Events](https://docs.slack.dev/apis/events-api.md):** subscribed events such as `app_mention`, `message`, or `reaction_added`.
- **[Actions](https://docs.slack.dev/interactivity/handling-user-interaction.md):** interactive components (buttons, selects) with an action ID.
- **[View submissions](https://docs.slack.dev/surfaces/modals.md):** modal submit handlers (`view_submission`).
- **[App Home](https://docs.slack.dev/surfaces/app-home.md):** an `app_home_opened` handler or a published Home tab.
- **[Assistant / agent](https://docs.slack.dev/ai.md):** an assistant or `assistant_thread_started` handler, common in the agent templates.

Name the concrete identifiers you find (the actual command and callback names), not placeholders.

### 3b. Turn each into a "do this, expect that" step

For every registered interaction, give the developer a concrete step and what a working app should do in response. A few spots are non-obvious, so spell them out:

- **Slash command** → type the command (for example `/ship`) in a channel or DM in the sandbox → expect the response the handler sends.

> - **Global shortcut** → open the shortcuts menu (the ⚡ icon by the message box) and pick it → expect the modal or message it opens.

Reviewer: note: The lightning-bolt shortcuts menu has moved behind the `+` button in the composer in recent Slack clients, so a developer following the step verbatim may not find it. Softening to "the lightning-bolt or + button in the message composer, depending on your client" keeps this accurate as the UI drifts.

```suggestion
- **Global shortcut** → open the shortcuts menu (the lightning-bolt or `+` button in the message composer, depending on your client) and pick it → expect the modal or message it opens.
```

<img width="370" height="209" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c3ea9484-09c2-4734-abdc-304be6552efb" />
